---
title:      aginfra
layout:     default
navigation: false
created:    28 Jun 2014
updated:    18 Aug 2014
---

[agINFRA](http://www.aginfra.eu/) has been conceived as a sustainable data infrastructure for agricultural research. The project addresses implementation of services relevant for a wide range of users: from infrastructure providers, developers of data processing and data management software, data providers, information managers, librarians, developers of high-level portals, to end-users (researchers, educators, citizens). Design of the infrastructure relies on adaptation of the existing infrastructures (Grid and Cloud), their customization, and the development of new components that will ensure balance in the system and its seamless use.

Available project infrastructure is technically organized into three main layers. At the lowest level, available hardware resources are organized into Grid sites and Cloud resources. OCCI-based and Okeanos Cloud implementations are currently supported by the project, as well as four major Grid middlewares used throughout Europe: ARC, dCache, gLite and UNICORE. Grid technology is dedicated to off-line processing that demands quite intensive computational power, as well as for metadata and data services able to locate and provide huge quantities of information. On the other hand, Cloud computing addresses requirements of interactive/on-line use and providing of permanent services. This layer is very extensible, and allows easy integration of new hardware resources into the existing system, which is crucial for the infrastructure providers.

On top of the Grid and Cloud infrastructure, the layer of Science Gateways (SG) provides seamless access to the distributed infrastructures for developers of processing and data management software. By definition, Science Gateway is a community-developed set of tools, applications, and data that is integrated via a portal or a suite of applications, usually through a graphical user interface, which is further customized to meet the needs of a specific community. Two different Science Gateway architectures are deployed within the [agINFRA](http://www.aginfra.eu/) project. Together, they address different usage patterns and requests, and complement each other in providing the requested functionalities. The SZTAKI SG implementation focuses on the management of complex job workflows, while the Catania SG implementation focuses on user membership management through the adoption of the Identity Federations and Identity Providers approach, allowing the single sign-on across many supported institutions, but also offering a vertical interface to all user levels.

In parallel to the two general-purpose SG implementations, agINFRA RESTful interface (part of Grid/Cloud API layer) is provided as well. This interface is developed within the project, and is used for cataloging, off-line processing, and management of data. As a catalog facility, agINFRA RESTful interface keeps user's configurations of Grid-ported applications, datasets' metadata information and locations, arbitrary user-defined metadata information, and allows querying of this information. Based on the information stored in the catalog, the gateway performs off-line Grid job submissions in order to collect new datasets, transform existing datasets, and produce new datasets' metadata information relevant for end-users. Due to heterogeneity of the project infrastructure and ported applications, registered locations of datasets initially point to the different storage architectures or systems, and retrieval of datasets is limited to the storage-specific protocols and authentications mechanisms. Unification of these protocols is achieved by the agINFRA RESTful interface, and end-users are enabled to retrieve the datasets produced within the infrastructure using a unique protocol (HTTP protocol). This interface carries out automatic replication of datasets, ensures the existence of the same dataset on different storage systems, and its exposure through the HTTP protocol.
